- [Instructor] CDI or contexts and dependency injection
was introduced in Java EE 6.
The introduction of CDI provided Java developers
with an alternative approach known as dependency injection
for structuring their applications.
There are two main concepts at the center of CDI,
beans and dependency injection.
Through Java's history
there was always the concept of a bean.
However, until Java EE 6 it wasn't clearly agreed upon.
Java EE 6 introduced the managed bean standard
which defines beans as non-static POJOs
that contain business logic
which are managed by a container.
Managed beans can then be injected
into other Java EE components,
such as servlets, JAX-RS resources, and other beans.
It's important to remember,
that an object must be a bean
to be used for dependency injection,
which is the other core concept in CDI.
Dependency injection changes how objects are created.
Instead of creating objects
using the new operator and constructor,
the container instantiates objects as beans.
Beans with dependencies on other objects
rely upon the container to inject those objects
instead of instantiating them themselves.
So for example, the Bean A object
has a dependency on Bean B.
Using dependency injection
the container injects Bean B into Bean A.
We can indicate that a bean should be injected
into a servlet or other bean using the Inject annotation.
Where we place the Inject annotation
is known as the injection point.
When determining which bean to inject,
the container considers the type of dependency
and selects a bean of matching type for injection.
Understanding these concepts
will help you be successful with CDI.
Within Java EE CDI's main features
include dependency injection
which is based upon the bean type.
It also features contexts
that define the scope of a bean within the CDI container.
These features allow developers
to create application code that is loosely coupled
making the application more flexible and robust.
Additionally CDI managed beans benefit
from services provided by the container
such as autodiscovery, qualifiers, scopes,
and naming that can be leveraged by expression language.
Within CDI there are two types of bean archives
that use different discovery modes.
The first type of bean archive is known as explicit
because it explicitly defines the discovery mode
in a beans.xml file located within the project.
With discovery mode all every object is created
as a bean within the archive.
Implicit archives are the default.
They do not contain a beans.xml file
and they set the discovery mode to annotate it
which causes only those beans
with a bean defining annotation
to be instantiated within the container.
Bean-defining annotations include the scope annotations
that we'll discuss next.
Every bean has a scope which determines the life cycle
of its instances and their visibility to other beans.
The default scope is Dependent
which causes a bean to assume the scope
of the bean it's injected into.
Request and Session scopes are used
to tie the scope of a bean
to either an HTTP request or an HTTP session.
ApplicationScoped beans have a larger scope
that causes a single instance of the bean
to be shared across the entire application.
Finally, the ConversationScoped bean is particular to JSF,
and it's explicitly controlled by the developer
through their application code.
Now, sometimes we have ambiguity between our beans,
they may share the same type.
So within CDI you will find support for qualifiers
which can instruct the container
to inject a particular bean
when multiple beans in the container have a similar type.
This is necessary for resolving that ambiguity
when we're injecting our beans
because the default mechanism is type based.
Additionally CDI allows us to build custom qualifiers
which are type safe and they allow for more granular control
of dependency injection within CDI.
So that's an overview of CDI.
Let's move into some examples.